# Crop Recommendation using LightBGM

This repository is an example of using LightGBM machine learning model and further hyperparameter tuning it with a hyperparameter called Flaml. It begins with the use of 6 classification models, followed by LightGBM and enhancing the accuracy using Hyperparameter tuning techniques.

### Implementation Details
- **Data Preprocessing:** The dataset is preprocessed to handle any missing values, perform feature scaling, and encode categorical variables as needed.
- **Train-Test Split:** The dataset is split into a training set and a test set.
- **Individual Model Training:** Six different machine learning models are selected initially for training - K Nearest Neigbour, Logistic Regression, Gaussian Naive Bayes, Decision Tree Classifier, Support Vector Classifier, Random Forest classifier. Each model is trained independently on the training data.
- **LightGBM Model Training:** It is then followed by training it on LightGBM model followed by hyperparamter tuning with flaml. The trained model is used to make the final prediction.
- **Model Evaluation:** The trained model is evaluated on the test data to assess its performance in prediction.

### Requirements
  - Python 3.x   

### Libraries:
  - numpy
  - pandas
  - scikit-learn (sklearn)
  - lightgbm
  - flaml

### How to Use the Repository
- **Clone the Repository:** Clone this repository to your local machine using the following command:
```
git clone [https://github.com/your_username/repo_name.git](https://github.com/akhilesh1709/Crop-Recommendation-using-LightGBM.git)
```
- **Install Dependencies:** Ensure you have Python 3.x installed and the required libraries by running-
```
pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn
```
- **Data Preparation:** Load the dataset or a new dataset in a format suitable for training the model.
- **Run the Code:** Execute the code that trains the model and evaluates its performance on the test data.
- **Analyze Results:** Examine the evaluation metrics and predictions generated by the model to gain insights into its performance.

### Contribution
Contributions to this repository are welcome! If you have suggestions for improvement, find any issues, or want to add additional features to the model, please feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request. Together, let's enhance the lightGBM model and make it more effective.
